docs: add  docs for cluster adoption (#5218)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/local-ui/cluster-management/local-to-central.md

---
sidebar_label: "Pair Local Cluster with Palette"
title: "Pair Local Cluster with Palette"
description:
  "Learn how to move a local cluster created on hosts with airgap installation mode to be managed by a Palette instance."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 55
tags: ["edge"]
---

> Clusters provisioned on hosts that are installed in the `airgap` installation mode are managed locally by Local UI. You

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clusters provisioned on hosts that are installed in the airgap installation mode are managed locally by Local UI. You
```
It feels a bit odd to have codeblocks here for airgap. I know it's a UI option, so I wonder if maybe italics is the better option, as we are using it as a term.

have the option to transfer the management of a local cluster from Local UI to a Palette instance to be managed
centrally by pairing the local cluster with a Palette instance.

> 

Reviewer: A diagram would be amazing, if we have time.

:::preview

:::

## Pair Local Cluster with Palette

> Moving a local cluster to central management is a two-step process. You first send a pairing request from your local
> cluster to Palette using Local UI. Then you must accept the pairing request and select matching profiles in Palettes to
> match the cluster stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving a local cluster to central management is a two-step process. You first send a pairing request from your local
cluster to Palette using Local UI. Next, you accept the pairing request and select matching profiles in Palettes to
match the cluster stack.
```
Changed to be more "active voice"

### Prerequisites

- An active locally managed cluster. The cluster must be in the **Running** state and all nodes must be healthy.

- An Edge host registration token. For more information on how to create registration tokens, refer to
  [Edge Host Registration](../../site-deployment/site-installation/create-registration-token.md).

- All Edge hosts in your cluster must be able to connect to the Palette instance you intend to use to manage the
  cluster.

> - Your Palette environment has cluster profiles whose latest version exactly match all layers of the local cluster.
>   Refer to [Accept Pairing Request from Palette](#accept-pairing-request-from-palette) for details and examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your Palette environment has cluster profiles whose latest version exactly matches all layers of the local cluster.
  Refer to [Accept Pairing Request from Palette](#accept-pairing-request-from-palette) for details and examples.
```

### Procedure

#### Send Pairing Request from Local Cluster

> 1. Log in to [Local UI](../host-management/access-console.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to  Local UI. For guidance on how to log into Local UI, check out the [Access Local UI](../host-management/access-console.md) guide.
```
I changed it, just so people don't think it's a URL like all other "Log in to Palette" statements.

2. On the left **Main Menu**, click **Settings**.

> 3. On the **Settings** tab, click on the radio button that says **Centrally Managed**. You will be prompted to enter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the **Settings** tab, click on the radio button labeled **Centrally Managed**. You will be prompted to enter
```

   information required for pairing your cluster with Palette.

> 4. Enter the URL for the Palette API endpoint. If you are using Palette SaaS, the endpoint is `api.spectrocloud.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enter the URL for the Palette API endpoint. If you are using Palette SaaS, the endpoint is `api.spectrocloud.com`. For self-hosted Palette or VerteX instances, check in with your system administrator for the proper Palette URL endpoint.
```
To help those using self-hosted.

    the **Pair Cluster** wizard.

12. You may change the cluster name as well as the description and tags for your cluster. The fields will be
    pre-populated with their existing values. Once you are satisfied with your changes, click **Next step**.

13. Match the profile used by your local cluster by selecting profiles in your Palette environment. To make a successful
    match, ensure that every pack in the profile used by your cluster is matched with the same pack in the exact same
    version. You can only choose the latest version of a profile in Palette and must make sure that the latest version
    of the profiles you use can match the cluster.

    In the following example, the second and third columns are valid matches because every layer in the original cluster
    has a matching layer in the matched profile. **Valid match 2** is valid even though it only has one full profile
    instead of an infra and an add-on profile, because all the layers are exactly the same.

    The fourth column shows an example of an invalid match because the **Add-on** profile has a pack that is in the

>     wrong version. The fifth column is also invalid because it has an additional pack that is not found in the original
>     cluster's profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    wrong version. The fifth column is also invalid because it has an additional pack that is not found in the local cluster's cluster profile.
```
Just a minor clarification

>     | Local cluster profile     | Valid match 1 ✅          | Valid match 2 ✅          | Invalid match 1 ❌        | Invalid match 2 ❌        |

Reviewer: @lennessyy I wonder if adding a name cell to each cluster profile, may help the reader. 
Instead of Valid Match 1 etc as the Column Cell name ... You could use something like Cluster Profile A vs Cluster Profile D . The valid match result could be moved to the bottom row. I think that could help the reader more quickly understand the comparison.
